---
name: Rule
about: Propose a new reduction rule
title: "[Rule] 3SAT to ETOL LANGUAGE MEMBERSHIP"
labels: rule
assignees: ''
---

**Source:** 3SAT
**Target:** ETOL LANGUAGE MEMBERSHIP
**Motivation:** (TBD)
**Reference:** Garey & Johnson, *Computers and Intractability*, A10 AL19

## Reduction Algorithm

> INSTANCE: An ETOL grammar G = (N,Σ,{δ₁,δ₂,…,δₙ},S) and a string w∈Σ*.
> QUESTION: Is w in the language generated by G?
> Reference: [van Leeuwen, 1975]. Transformation from 3SAT.
> Comment: PSPACE-complete, even if G is an "ε-free ETOL grammar" [Jones and Skyum, 1976]. If G is fixed, the problem is in NP and there exist particular grammars for which it is NP-complete, even if G is a "TOL grammar" (has no nonterminals) and is ε-free [Van Leeuwen, 1975]. The problem is solvable in polynomial time for fixed G if G is an "EDTOL grammar" [Jones and Skyum, 1977] or if G is an "EOL grammar" (has only one table) [Opatrný and Culik, 1975].

## Size Overhead

| Target metric (code name) | Polynomial (using symbols above) |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| (TBD) | (TBD) |

## Validation Method

(TBD)

## Example

(TBD)


## References

- **[van Leeuwen, 1975]**: [`van Leeuwen1975`] Jan van Leeuwen (1975). "The membership question for {ETOL}-languages is polynomially complete". *Information Processing Letters* 3, pp. 138–143.
- **[Jones and Skyum, 1976]**: [`Jones1976c`] Neil D. Jones and Sven Skyum (1976). "Complexity of some problems concerning {L} systems (preliminary report)". University of Aarhus.
- **[Van Leeuwen, 1975]**: [`van Leeuwen1975`] Jan van Leeuwen (1975). "The membership question for {ETOL}-languages is polynomially complete". *Information Processing Letters* 3, pp. 138–143.
- **[Jones and Skyum, 1977]**: [`Jones1977c`] Neil D. Jones and Sven Skyum (1977). "Recognition of deterministic {ETOL} languages in logarithmic space". *Information and Control* 35, pp. 177–181.
- **[Opatrný and Culik, 1975]**: [`Opatrny1975`] J. Opatrn{\'y} and K. Culik, II (1975). "Time complexity of {L} languages". In: *Abstracts of Papers: Conference on Formal Languages, Automata, and Development*.